Now let's add the same tests for the just setup.
So here, opening the explorer here and let's create a new file.
And this is for app component.
Just.
Yes.
So we have this naming this naming convention here.
And the just test is this just extension.
So we will do something similar with it in the sign up component.
Justice, by the way, as soon as we add the file, the component, just as it is failing because it
is empty and just is basically complaining about it.
So we are going to do similar things that we did here in the sign of components of first thing is we
are going to import the render and screen functionalities from testing library Angular.
And let's start with the first test.
First thing is the scrap block for the routing.
And our first test was it displays home page at this pad.
So we are going to render our component.
Let's get the component as well.
Report the component is app component from this.
Pat and we are going to render the component.
And in this one we are passing the render options to import and the declarations for the components
we are using.
The declarations are for the components like the home page, home component and sign up component.
And we are also going to import the modules like.
Like the sign up component is depend on the user service and the user service is dependent on the HTP
client module.
We can go with the typical module.
We are not going to deal with the testing part of it.
We are not going to trigger the API calls here at least for the first moment, so we can go with the
HTTP client module and the next thing is the shared module because we are using the app button in the
signup and the other one is the reactive forms module.
And for the the routing, we don't need to import the router router testing module, but all we do is
just set the roots here.
So this option takes roots property and basically the roots is the, the roots we are creating here.
So we are passing this roots array to, to the roots property here.
So this render is asynchronous.
So we wait here.
And this is async.
And for the navigation part, this render is returning back.
Let's get the object to structuring.
We have the navigate function.
So as a render result we are able to get the navigate function and we can call navigate to the path
we are looking for.
Again, this is async.
This is promised.
So we are waiting here.
Then we are going to query the page test ID.
So we are going to.
Begetting.
Let's say the page is going to be screen query by test ID and the test ID for the home page is this
one home page, and we expect this page to be in the document.
So let's save this one.
And here we see the components are passing.
By the way, you may have realized that after having multiple test modules, the just output is only
displaying results for the test module.
It's not displaying individual test results.
This is something configurable.
There is this variable property and we can set it to true so that it would be listing all the test tests
in each of these test modules as well.
But let's continue like this.
So this was the first test and we will have the the other one for the sign up instead of just going
with the copy and paste.
We can just go directly to the test like this.
It h.
If you remember, we have been doing that in our tests.
When we have repeating things, we have this.
It's each functionality.
So we are having this pad and the, let's say the page and for
for the root pad we will see the home page and for sign up URL we will see sign up page and the test
description is it displays dollar sign page when pad is dollar sign pad.
So it displays home page when pad is.
Slash.
So this is going to be async and we can get the values of these these table by like this pad and page
and in the test function, just moving this into this part and.
Let's change it to page ID, page ID, page ID, and we are going to use it here and the pat will be
used here.
Just formatting the code here.
Let's save this one.
Now we are seeing all tastes are passing, by the way, in just output.
Again, we can use the the filtering functionalities here it is saying press w to see the options here.
And when we hit that it is showing us the options to filter the test based on the the criterias like
the run only the failing test run only the the tests in the specific test module or run the test having
the test description metric to the expression we said, so we can just filter the test for the EP.
We do that by hitting P here.
So then we type the test module again.
This is a blank x here, so I'm just going with the EP.
Then this is going to be running the test modules, having EP text in it.
So hitting enter.
This is running all the tests because all of them are under the app folder.
But if he if he specified a bit more like app component, then this is running on the app component
test.
And in this case, since it's running on a single test model, it is displaying all the test descriptions
here and here we can see it is based on page.
When Pat is forward slash and it displays sign up h when pat is sign up.
So the tests are like this.
We can do one more thing here.
We can extract this part out of this test.
Let's have a function like this.
Let's say it is set up and let's move this into that function.
Just taking the render and the navigate part pasting here and since this is async await, just making
sure this is async and let's take the pat as variable.
Let's say to pat, this is going to be a string and in the test we are going to call a wait set up with
the pat.
So let's save this one.
And the tests are passing.